Hello and welcome back to the advance
course on Tableau. In the previous
tutorial, we created our data source
filters and today we're going to
continue with our investigations so
right away we can see that there are
quite a few states here but we know that
we're only supposed to be looking at
four, so the one we're operating in right
now which is a New South Wales and the
ones that we are considering so those
are Queensland, Victoria and Western
Australia so let's go ahead and add a
filter to leave only the states that
were interested in and let's not get
carried away with data source filters. We
could use one here but at the same time
maybe the management might change their
opinion and they might want to look at
other states maybe we might need this
row one day which is representing a
total for all states for the whole
Australia, so let's just use a normal
filter here which is going to take state
and drag it into filters now we will
select the ones we need which are New
South Wales, Queensland, Victoria and Western
Australia.
Ok alright so there is our trend for the
industry which we are looking at which
is clothing and what can we see here
well let's go ahead and add a trendline
and we already know how to a trend lines
we can right click here and select trend
lines show trend lines or the other way
to do it is to go to the analytics pane
which we already talked about and take
the trendline drag it into here. Now you
can select from multiple types of trend
lines so exponential polynomial you can
select algorithmic in this case or you
can go linear so in this case that
they just put a polynomial just for fun
and that's what it looks like but
normally the most common one and the one
we're going to use is actually the
linear trend line. Alright so here's our
trend line, now let's adjust a few things
about our trend line if we right-click
and go to trend lines and select a trend
lines we can change a few things here so
we can change the type of trend line so
if you you select a polynomial you can
select the number of degrees in your
polynom
but we're not going to do that we're
going to keep it linear then include the
fields that were using as factors so in
this case we're only using one field so
state so we have a different trend line
for every state if we uncheck that then
the trend line will be the same across
all of the data sets like it looks
different but that's because the axis
are not aligned so if I right click and
click edit access and I say uniform
range and then you'll see that it's
exactly the same trend line in every
single case and that's because it's not
being calculated at every single row or
every single one of these states but
it's actually being calculated overall
for all of them all together so let's go
ahead and change that back. So it's state
here so when you have multiple fields
here you can select you can select some
of them if you don't want that level of
granularity in the calculation of your
trend line which can be useful
sometimes.
Alright so there we go, that's the proper
trendlines now let's go ahead trendlines
what else do we have here? A lot of trend
line per color-changing is one too much
because we already have this this color
is in state so this is more for when you
have multiple lines on one chart, so let
may give you an example. So let's say I
don't have state here but I have state
in color and as you can see there's a
trend line for every single color. So if
i go to edit trend lines and I say
unselect not a trend line per color so
you can see what happens that all the
trendlines they get combined into one so
it's pretty much same as unchecking
state here but here is specifically
looking at the column that's responsible
for color so let's just control zed
that that a couple times.
Ok so as you can see the trend line here
has these confidence bands which are not
very helpful because since we've got
like such large spikes which are normal
these are seasonal spikes and of course
is going to be out of the confidence
band so what we want is we want to get
rid of these confidence bands they're
not really helping.
Let's go trend lines and get rid of them
is just taking up space and now you
see that trend lines that much better
more legible like that and the last
option that we have here is show
recalculate line for highlighted or
select data points. So let's keep that on
and I will show you how that can
sometimes be useful.
Let's click OK and right-click our axis
and change it to independent axis for
each row column and now let's see what
that option does so what I'll do is once
I select few data points it will recreate the
trend line so you can see that second
trend line up hearing over there and
just for the ones that I've highlighted
or selected and how can that be useful?
Well this is the overall trend for past
15 years in each state for this industry
and let's say I want to see how this
trend has changed in the past five years
or let's say yeah let's say five years
so so they'll be 2015, 14, 13, 12 and 11. So
let's find where 2011 starts so that's
over there and let's just select all the
data points in the past five years and
as you can see the trend is steeper here
so the trend is accelerating and we were
able to very quickly identify that so we
don't have to recreate are visually in
any sort of way we can see right away
just by selecting these data points we
can see that this is the previous trend
and this is the new trend and it is a
much steeper so meaning that this
industry is accelerating the growth is
increasing in and in the past five years
the growth has been much more
significant than it has generally being
over the past 15 years.
Another example let's look at Queensland
so if we highlight these data points you
can see that the trend is less deeper
than the trend for the past 15 years so
meaning that this industry in this state
has probably been slowing down. You can
select more circumspect bit more years
from 2007 it's pretty much it's about
the same but if you start from
2005 you can see that is a even steeper
decline here because there's a like a
significant
growth in the industry in these years
and then it started to drop off. So
that's how this feature can be helpful
when you're selecting different subsets
of your data sometimes it might not
be helpful so then you switch it off but
in this case we're going to leave it on
because that might be something that we
might want to report in our analysis
might be something useful.
Alright so we can see some preliminary
kind of conclusion, so maybe you might be
able to include this in your analysis as
is you might say okay so then just this
industry is growing. This industry is
kind of growing slower. This industry or
sorry this state in Victoria's is
growing even faster by the looks of it
and so on but the thing that we're not
taking into account here is that these
states have different populations right?
So you can see the turnover here is 600
million so that the turnover ranges up
to 600 million plus here is 300 million
plus and 600 million, 150
million but that is also partially
attributed to or in largely attributed
to the fact that the population of these
states is different. So New South Wales
has a lot of people,
Victoria is also a large state,
Queensland is a bit small than Australia is
also a small, smaller state compared to
these other ones. So how do we account
for population?
Well we need to connect to our
population data and of course we
could just take the average population
for in-state for those years and just
divide this number by that population
and get the like a proxy for per capital
consumption but really population also
grows population also changes over time
and perhaps there's a
chance that this trend that we're seeing
is increase is actually not only
because people are consuming more but
also because the population is growing
so people there are more people and
therefore were all they're consuming
more maybe on average people are
consuming less and that is something we
also need to investigate so we want to
take the trend for population and then
divide the trend
and for this industry by the trend by
the population so to speak to get the
figures. So the per capita consumption
how it is changing so that way we're
kind of going to normalize our data
and then we'll be able to compare the
states against each other. Right now we
can't really compare them because they
have a different number of people, the people
are kind might be consuming in different
rates. Populations are growing in
different rates but once we normalize it
so we divide every data point by the
associated population and then we get
how the per capita consumption is
changing in each state then we'll be
able to identify in which industry in
which state this industry is growing the
fastest. So not just which state is
growing the fastest which pop which
states population is growing fastest but
we're going to take that out of the
equation we're going to eliminate how
popular changes in population and we're
going to actually see alright so in
which of these states are people willing
to spend more in this industry and
that's important because that's what we
want to get to the bottom of that's our
goal. We want to see which in which state
has the biggest potential for this
industry. So where are people spending
more and more and more and more so where
is this industry growing the fastest not
anything else.
Alright so that's why we need to get to
per capita consumption because it will
give us a more insights more relevant
insights to our challenge and therefore
we're going to need to connect to our
next data set which is the population
growth and statistics on population and
we'll do that in the next tutorial. I
look forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, happy analyzing.